=head1 NAME

InteractiveShell.pm - Interactive Shell module for Rover


=head1 VERSION

1.00


=head1 SYNOPSYS

  # Format for commands.run
  GENERAL:{
    ...

    # Add module to rover runtime environment
    use InteractiveShell;

  };

  Ruleset:{
    ...

    # Get an interactive shell for current host
    shell();

  };

The public functions available are as follows:

  InteractiveShell::shell()

=head1 DESCRIPTION

  This module simply drops you to an interactive shell after
  authentication and, if specified, root access is aquired.

  It is not intended for you to log out, Rover will handle that
  after your session is complete.  For this reason, CTRL+D is 
  mapped to return you to rover functionalilty.

  This module should work well with other modules, however
  not much has been tested.  All output will be logged just
  like everything else.

=head1 USAGE

=over 4

=item shell();


=head1 AUTHORS

Bryan Bueter


=head1 LICENSE

This module can be used under the same license as Perl.


=head1 DISCLAIMER

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING,
BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS
OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND
ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR
TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE
USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.
